DBZ-6455: Document Optimal MongoDB Oplog Config for Resiliency (#4598)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/connectors/mongodb.adoc

To avoid this, you can provide a higher  https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/replica-set-oplog/[Oplog size] or preferably a Minimum Oplog Window config available since MongoDB 4.4 (i.e. time-based, entries of the last X-hours are guaranteed to be available even if oplog size cap is reached.) The later is preferable but may not always be the option as it can have impact if the cluster is reaching its capacity and there is sudden load of data. Thus you can instead choose to provide a higher Oplog size based on you workloads, ideally should be more than peak Oplog/Hour.

E.g. If we have 3 GB oplog per hour and only 1 GB oplog size limit. Oplog entries will get cleared thrice an hour, which would be bad if Debezium fails during this time. Thus an oplog size of ? gb should be  optimum for such workload.

> 

Author: @Naros @jpechane Can you help me with this? Should I just write "more than 3 GB would be optimum"

Author: Also, I'll refine the language. This is just a draft for now.

Reviewer: @ironakj I think the text itself is fine. For the last sentence I 'd recommend something like - in suh situation if your average reaction time to Debezium failure is 2 hours then the oplog size should be at least 6 GB.

@roldanbob Could you please take a look at it when undrafted?

Note that MongoDB Atlas only supports secure connections via SSL, i.e. the xref:mongodb-property-mongodb-ssl-enabled[`+mongodb.ssl.enabled`] connector option _must_ be set to `true`.
endif::community[]

[[mongodb-optimal-oplog-config]]
=== Optimal Oplog Config

> The {prodname} MongoDB connector works by obtaining changes from https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/replica-set-oplog/[Oplog] using https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/changeStreams/[change streams]. As oplog is a https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/glossary/#std-term-capped-collection/[capped collection], older entries are overwritten once maximum configured size is reached. For MongoDB connector to be able to deal with failures it is important that the oplog retention config is such that the resume point is available upon restart or retries. If the last oplog position is lost, the connector can not start again and a new connector has to be created afresh - See xref:debezium-mongodb-connector-is-stopped-for-a-long-interval[Connector fails after it is stopped for a long interval if snapshot.mode is set to initial].

Author: Understood. In that case, adding it will create more confusion. 

I think here we can instead extend the previous statement to _"the connector *may* fails to start depending on your `snapshot.mode` config, and you must create a new connector."_

> The {prodname} MongoDB connector works by obtaining changes from https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/replica-set-oplog/[Oplog] using https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/changeStreams/[change streams]. As oplog is a https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/glossary/#std-term-capped-collection/[capped collection], older entries are overwritten once maximum configured size is reached. For MongoDB connector to be able to deal with failures it is important that the oplog retention config is such that the resume point is available upon restart or retries. If the last oplog position is lost, the connector can not start again and a new connector has to be created afresh - See xref:debezium-mongodb-connector-is-stopped-for-a-long-interval[Connector fails after it is stopped for a long interval if snapshot.mode is set to initial].

Reviewer 2: Edited.

> To avoid this, you can provide a higher https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/replica-set-oplog/[Oplog size] or preferably a https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/replica-set-oplog/#std-label-replica-set-minimum-oplog-size/[Minimum Oplog Window] config available since MongoDB 4.4 (i.e. time-based, entries of the last X-hours are guaranteed to be available even if oplog size cap is reached). The latter is preferable but may not always be an option as it can have impact if the cluster is reaching its capacity and there is sudden load of data. Thus, you can instead choose to provide a higher Oplog size based on you workloads, ideally should be more than peak Oplog/Hour.

Author: Will commit this.

> E.g. If we have 3 GB oplog per hour and only 1 GB oplog size limit. Oplog entries will get cleared thrice an hour, which would be bad if Debezium fails during this time. Thus, if your average reaction time to Debezium failure is 2 hours then the oplog size should be at least 6 GB.

Author: I think not everyone will be able to comprehend "time to react"  - a naive person might be just looking for how to recover from a failure and how to avoid one. Can you suggest how we can simplify it?

> E.g. If we have 3 GB oplog per hour and only 1 GB oplog size limit. Oplog entries will get cleared thrice an hour, which would be bad if Debezium fails during this time. Thus, if your average reaction time to Debezium failure is 2 hours then the oplog size should be at least 6 GB.

Reviewer 2: Edited.

> Monitoring Oplog is easy on a Atlas MongoDB Cluster, See https://www.mongodb.com/basics/how-to-monitor-mongodb-and-what-metrics-to-monitor#oplog-gbhour/[Monitoring Oplog] about Replication Oplog Window (if debezium is disabled and lagging more than this, then it is bound to fail) and Oplog GB/Hour (explained above).

Author: I think Replication Oplog Window is an important metric to look for in case of failure. I'll check how we can improve the above to add that - probably we should add that in the beginning itself. Any specific reason for removing it other than simplifying the text?

> Monitoring Oplog is easy on a Atlas MongoDB Cluster, See https://www.mongodb.com/basics/how-to-monitor-mongodb-and-what-metrics-to-monitor#oplog-gbhour/[Monitoring Oplog] about Replication Oplog Window (if debezium is disabled and lagging more than this, then it is bound to fail) and Oplog GB/Hour (explained above).

Reviewer 2: Yes, my intention was to simplify the text. The original sentence was a bit to dense, and its meaning was not entirely clear. The original link text refers generally to _Monitoring Oplog_ , but the link target is actually _Oplog GB/Hour_, so it seemed like the important takeaway for readers was that they should monitor replication metrics. I added a link in my [previous edit](https://github.com/debezium/debezium/pull/4598#discussion_r1235492479) to the Oplog GB/Hour metric, so readers who follow that link would land in the same _MongoDB Replication Metrics_ section that discusses the Replication Oplog Window.

I've added a couple of sentences to my original edit to suggest the specific metrics to track.

|16 |120|20:07
|===

[id="connector-error-invalid-resume-token"]
=== Connector Unable to Start - InvalidResumeToken or ChangeStreamHistoryLost

If a connector was stopped for long period and now is unable to start, with the following exception.
----
Command failed with error 286 (ChangeStreamHistoryLost): 'PlanExecutor error during aggregation :: caused by :: Resume of change stream was not possible, as the resume point may no longer be in the oplog
----

> This indicates that the entry which corresponds to the connector's resume token no longer exists in the Oplog. At this point the connector cannot resume streaming, because the oplog no longer contains the previous offset that the connector has processed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preceding exception indicates that the entry that corresponds to the connector's resume token is no longer present in the oplog. 
Because the oplog no longer contains the last offset that the connector processed, the connector cannot resume streaming.
```

> To recover from the failure, either delete the failed connector, and create a new connector with the same configuration but with a different connector name, or pause the connector and clean or change the offset topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use either of the following options to recover from the failure:

* Delete the failed connector, and create a new connector with the same configuration but with a different connector name.

* Pause the connector and then remove offsets, or change the offset topic.
```

> To avoid this failure, xref:mongodb-optimal-oplog-config [see how to configure oplog optimally].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To help prevent failures related to missing resume tokens, xref:mongodb-optimal-oplog-config[optimize configuration of the oplog].
```
